"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://www.cs.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/spparks.html)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

barrier command :h3

[Syntax:]

barrier Q
barrier delta Q
barrier I J Q :pre

Q = barrier height (energy units)
delta = difference in coordination number of 2 participating sites
I,J = coordination numbers of 2 participating sites :ul

[Examples:]

barrier 0.25
barrier 1 0.3
barrier -1 0.35
barrier 3 4 0.2
barrier * * 0.1
barrier 2*5 3* 0.1 :pre

[Description:]

This command sets the energy barrier for a diffusive hop of an atom
from an occupied site to a neighboring vacant site.  See the
"app_style diffusion2"_app_diffusion.html command for how the barrier
is used in conjunction with the energy change of the system due to the
hop to calculate a probability for the hop to occur.

Barriers are assigned based on two coordination numbers, for the
initial site of the hopping atom and its final site.  Thus typically
(Nmax+1)*(Nmax+1) values should be specified by using this command one
or more times, which can be thought of as (I,J) matrix entries where
both I and J vary from 0 to Nmax, when Nmax is the number of neighbor
sites for each lattice site.  Note that it is permissible to have Qij
!= Qji, particularly if the model does not use energies, but only
barriers to set forward/reverse rates.

If only one argument Q is specified, then all matrix values are set to
Q.  If the Q value = 0.0, this effectively turns off barriers in the
model.

If two arguments delta and Q are specified, then all matrix
elements where delta = J-I are set to Q.

If three arguments I and J and Q are specified, then the (I,J) element
is set to Q.  In this case, the I.J indices can each be specified in
one of two ways.  An explicit numeric value can be used, as in the 4th
example above.  Or a wild-card asterisk can be used to set the energy
value for multiple coordination numbers.  This takes the form "*" or
"*n" or "n*" or "m*n".  If Nmax = the number of neighbor sites, then
an asterisk with no numeric values means all coordination numbers from
0 to Nmax.  A leading asterisk means all coordination numbers from 0
to n (inclusive).  A trailing asterisk means all coordination numbers
from n to Nmax (inclusive).  A middle asterisk means all coordination
numbers from m to n (inclusive).

The {Q} value should be in the energy units defined by the
application's Hamiltonian and should be consistent with the units used
in any "temperature"_temperature.html command.

[Restrictions:]

This command can only be used as part of the "app_style
diffusion2"_app_diffusion2.html application.

[Related commands:]

"deposition"_deposition.html, "ecoord"_ecoord.html

[Default:]

Energy barriers for all hop events are set to 0, which is effectively
no barriers.
