"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc :c

:link(sws,http://www.cs.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/spparks.html)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

create_sites command :h3

[Syntax:]

create_sites style arg keyword values ... :pre

style = {box} or {region} :ulb,l
  {box} arg = none
  {region} arg = region-ID
    region-ID = sites will only be created if contained in the region :pre
zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended :l
keyword = {value} or {basis} :l
  {value} values = label nvalue
    label = {site} or {iN} or {dN}
    nvalue = specific value to set all created sites to
  {basis} values = M nvalue
    M = which basis site (see asterisk form below)
    nvalue = specific value to set all created basis sites to :pre
:ule

[Examples:]

create_sites box
create_sites region surf value site 1
create_sites box value i2 0 basis 1 1 basis 2* 2 :pre

[Description:]

This command creates "sites" on a lattice for on-lattice and
off-lattice applications.  This is an alternative to reading in their
coordinates via a "read_sites"_read_sites.html command.  A simulation
box must already exist, which is typically created via the
"create_box"_create_box.html command.  Before using this command, a
lattice must also be defined using the "lattice"_lattice.html command.

In SPPARKS, a "site" is a point in space at which an application, as
defined by the "app_style"_app_style.html command can perform events.
For on-lattice applications, the site is static and has a defined set
of neighboring sites with which it interacts.  For off-lattice
applications, a site is like a particle.  It moves and has a dynamic
neighborhood of nearby particles with which it interacts.

For the {box} style, the create_sites command fills the entire
simulation box with sites on the lattice.  This is the only option
allowed for on-lattice applications.

In this case the simulation box size must be an integer multiple of
the lattice constant in each dimension, to insure consitent placement
of sites and neighbor interactions across periodic boundaries.
SPPARKS is careful to put exactly one site at the boundary (on either
side of the box), not zero or two.

NOTE: The {region} style is not yet implemented but will be soon.  The
following text explains how it will work.

For the {region} style, the geometric volume is filled with sites on
the lattice that are both inside the simulation box and also
consistent with the region volume.  See the "region"_region.html
command for details.  Note that a region can be specified so that its
"volume" is either inside or outside a geometric boundary.  Also note
that even if the region is the same size as a periodic simulation box
(in some dimension), SPPARKS does not implement the same logic as with
the {box} style, to insure exactly one site at the boundary.  If this
is what you desire, you should either use the {box} style, or tweak
the region size to get precisely the sites you want.

:line

Site IDs are assigned to created sites with consecutive values from 1
to N, where N is the total number of sites that fill the simulation
box.  The numbering is the same, independent of the number of
processors.

Depending on the "application"_app_style.html, each site stores zero
of more integer and floating-point values.  By default these are set
to zero when a site is created by this command.  The {value} and
{basis} keywords can override the default.

The {value} keyword specifies a per-site value that will be assigned
to every site as it is created.  The {label} determines which per-site
quantity is set.  {iN} and {dN} mean the Nth integer or floating-point
quantity, with 1 <= N <= Nmax.  Nmax is defined by the application.
If {label} is specified as {site} it is the same as {i1}.  The
quantity is set to the specified {nvalue}, which should be either an
integer or floating-point numeric value, depending on what kind of
per-site quantity is being set.

The {basis} keyword can be used to override the {value} keyword
setting for individual basis sites as each unit cell is created.  The
per-site quantity (e.g. i2) specified by the {value} keyword is set
for basis sites {M}.  The quantity is set to the specified {nvalue}
for the {basis} keyword, instead of the {nvalue} from the {value}
keyword.  See the "lattice"_lattice.html command for specifics on how
basis atoms and unit cells are defined for each lattice style.

M can be specified in one of two ways.  An explicit numeric value can
be used, such as 2.  A wild-card asterisk can also be used in place of
or in conjunction with the M argument to specify multiple basis sites
together.  This takes the form "*" or "*n" or "n*" or "m*n".  If N =
the total number of basis sites, then an asterisk with no numeric
values means all sites from 1 to N.  A leading asterisk means all
sites from 1 to n (inclusive).  A trailing asterisk means all sites
from n to N (inclusive).  A middle asterisk means all sites from m to
n (inclusive).

[Restrictions:]

The "app_style"_app_style.html command must be used to define an
application before using the create_box command.

[Related commands:]

"lattice"_lattice.html, "region"_region.html,
"create_box"_create_box.html, "read_sites"_read_sites.html

[Default:] none
