"Previous Section"_Section_modify.html - "SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws -
"SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc - "Next
Section"_Section_future.html :c

:link(sws,http://www.cs.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/spparks.html)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

9. Errors :h3

This section describes the various kinds of errors you can encounter
when using SPPARKS.

9.1 "Common problems"_#9_1
9.2 "Reporting bugs"_#9_2
9.3 "Error & warning messages"_#9_3 :all(b)

:line

9.1 Common problems :link(9_1),h4

A SPPARKS simulation typically has two stages, setup and run.  Many
SPPARKS errors are detected at setup time; others may not occur until
the middle of a run.

SPPARKS tries to flag errors and print informative error messages so
you can fix the problem.  Of course SPPARKS cannot figure out your
physics mistakes, like choosing too big a timestep or setting up an
invalid initial geoemetry.  If you find errors that SPPARKS doesn't
catch that you think it should flag, please send an email to the
"developers"_http://SPPARKS.sandia.gov/authors.html.

If you get an error message about an invalid command in your input
script, you can determine what command is causing the problem by
looking in the log.spparks file or using the "echo command"_echo.html
to see it on the screen.  For example you can run your script as

spk_linux -echo screen < in.script :pre

For a given command, SPPARKS expects certain arguments in a specified
order.  If you mess this up, SPPARKS will often flag the error, but it
may read a bogus argument and assign a value that is not what you
wanted.  E.g. if the input parser reads the string "abc" when
expecting an integer value, it will assign the value of 0 to a
variable.

Generally, SPPARKS will print a message to the screen and exit
gracefully when it encounters a fatal error.  Sometimes it will print
a WARNING and continue on; you can decide if the WARNING is important
or not.  If SPPARKS crashes or hangs without spitting out an error
message first then it could be a bug (see "this section"_#9_2) or one
of the following cases:

SPPARKS runs in the available memory each processor can allocate.  All
large memory allocations in the code are done via C-style malloc's
which will generate an error message if you run out of memory.
Smaller chunks of memory are allocated via C++ "new" statements.  If
you are unlucky you could run out of memory when one of these small
requests is made, in which case the code will crash, since SPPARKS
doesn't trap on those errors.

Illegal arithmetic can cause SPPARKS to run slow or crash.  This is
typically due to invalid physics and numerics that your simulation is
computing.  If you see wild energy values or NaN values in your
SPPARKS output, something is wrong with your simulation.

In parallel, one way SPPARKS can hang is due to how different MPI
implementations handle buffering of messages.  If the code hangs
without an error message, it may be that you need to specify an MPI
setting or two (usually via an environment variable) to enable
buffering or boost the sizes of messages that can be buffered.

:line

9.2 Reporting bugs :link(9_2),h4

If you are confident that you have found a bug in SPPARKS, please send
an email to the "developers"_http://SPPARKS.sandia.gov/authors.html.

First, check the "New features and bug fixes" section of the "SPPARKS
WWW site"_sws to see if the bug has already been reported or fixed.

If not, the most useful thing you can do for us is to isolate the
problem.  Run it on the smallest problem and fewest number of
processors and with the simplest input script that reproduces the bug.

In your email, describe the problem and any ideas you have as to what
is causing it or where in the code the problem might be.  We'll
request your input script and data files if necessary.

:line

9.3 Error & warning messages :h4,link(9_3)

These are two alphabetic lists of the "ERROR"_#error and
"WARNING"_#warn messages SPPARKS prints out and the reason why.  If the
explanation here is not sufficient, the documentation for the
offending command may help.  Grepping the source files for the text of
the error message and staring at the source code and comments is also
not a bad idea!  Note that sometimes the same message can be printed
from multiple places in the code.

Errors: :h4,link(error)

:dlb

{Dihedral problem: %d %d %d %d %d %d} :dt

Conformation of the 4 listed dihedral atoms is extreme; you may want
to check your simulation geometry. :dd

:dle

Warnings: :h4,link(warn)

:dlb

{Dihedral problem: %d %d %d %d %d %d} :dt

Conformation of the 4 listed dihedral atoms is extreme; you may want
to check your simulation geometry. :dd

:dle
