"Previous Section"_Section_intro.html - "SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws -
"SPPARKS Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc - "Next
Section"_Section_commands.html :c

:link(sws,http://www.cs.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/spparks.html)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

2. Getting Started :h3

This section describes how to unpack, make, and run SPPARKS.

2.1 "What's in the SPPARKS distribution"_#2_1
2.2 "Making SPPARKS"_#2_2
2.3 "Making SPPARKS with optional packages"_#2_3
2.4 "Building SPPARKS as a library"_#2_4
2.5 "Running SPPARKS"_#2_5
2.6 "Command-line options"_#2_6 :all(b)

:line

2.1 What's in the SPPARKS distribution :h4,link(2_1)

When you download SPPARKS you will need to unzip and untar the
downloaded file with the following commands, after placing the tarball
in an appropriate directory.

gunzip spparks*.tar.gz 
tar xvf spparks*.tar :pre

This will create a spparks directory containing two files and several
sub-directories:
    
README: text file
LICENSE: the GNU General Public License (GPL)
doc: documentation
examples: test problems
src: source files :tb(s=:)

:line

2.2 Making SPPARKS :h4,link(2_2)

[{Read this first:}]

Building SPPARKS can be non-trivial.  You will likely need to edit a
makefile, there are compiler options, an MPI library can be used, etc.
Please read this section carefully.  If you are not comfortable with
makefiles, or building codes on a Unix platform, or running an MPI job
on your machine, please find a local expert to help you.

[{Building a SPPARKS executable:}]

The src directory contains the C++ source and header files for SPPARKS.
It also contains a top-level Makefile and a MAKE sub-directory with
low-level Makefile.* files for several machines.  From within the src
directory, type "make" or "gmake".  You should see a list of available
choices.  If one of those is the machine and options you want, you can
type a command like:

make linux
gmake mac :pre

Note that on a multi-processor or multi-core platform you can launch a
parallel make, by using the "-j" switch with the make command, which
will typically build SPPARKS more quickly.

If you get no errors and an executable like spk_linux or spk_mac is
produced, you're done; it's your lucky day.

[{Errors that can occur when making SPPARKS:}]

(1) If the make command breaks immediately with errors that indicate
it can't find files with a "*" in their names, this can be because
your machine's make doesn't support wildcard expansion in a makefile.
Try gmake instead of make.  If that doesn't work, try using a -f
switch with your make command to use Makefile.list which explicitly
lists all the needed files, e.g.

make makelist
make -f Makefile.list linux
gmake -f Makefile.list mac :pre

The first "make" command will create a current Makefile.list with all
the file names in your src dir.  The 2nd "make" command (make or
gmake) will use it to build SPPARKS.

(2) Other errors typically occur because the low-level Makefile isn't
setup correctly for your machine.  If your platform is named "foo",
you need to create a Makefile.foo in the MAKE sub-directory.  Use
whatever existing file is closest to your platform as a starting
point.  See the next section for more instructions.

[{Editing a new low-level Makefile.foo:}]

These are the issues you need to address when editing a low-level
Makefile for your machine.  With a couple exceptions, the only portion
of the file you should need to edit is the "System-specific Settings"
section.

(1) Change the first line of Makefile.foo to include the word "foo"
and whatever other options you set.  This is the line you will see if
you just type "make".

(2) Set the paths and flags for your C++ compiler, including
optimization flags.  You can use g++, the open-source GNU compiler,
which is available on all Unix systems.  Vendor compilers often
produce faster code.  On boxes with Intel CPUs, we suggest using the
free Intel icc compiler, which you can download from "Intel's compiler
site"_intel.

:link(intel,http://www.intel.com/software/products/noncom)

(3) If you want SPPARKS to run in parallel, you must have an MPI
library installed on your platform.  If you do not use "mpicc" as your
compiler/linker, then Makefile.foo needs to specify where the mpi.h
file (-I switch) and the libmpi.a library (-L switch) is found.  If
you are installing MPI yourself, we recommend Argonne's MPICH 1.2 or
2.0 which can be downloaded from the "Argonne MPI
site"_http://www-unix.mcs.anl.gov/mpi.  OpenMPI should also work.  If
you are running on a big parallel platform, your system people or the
vendor should have already installed a version of MPI, which will be
faster than MPICH or OpenMPI, so find out how to build and link with
it.  If you use MPICH or OpenMPI, you will have to configure and build
it for your platform.  The MPI configure script should have compiler
options to enable you to use the same compiler you are using for the
SPPARKS build, which can avoid problems that may arise when linking
SPPARKS to the MPI library.

(4) If you just want SPPARKS to run on a single processor, you can use
the STUBS library in place of MPI, since you don't need an MPI library
installed on your system.  See the Makefile.serial file for how to
specify the -I and -L switches.  You will also need to build the STUBS
library for your platform before making SPPARKS itself.  From the STUBS
dir, type "make" and it will hopefully create a libmpi.a suitable for
linking to SPPARKS.  If the build fails, you will need to edit the
STUBS/Makefile for your platform.

The file STUBS/mpi.cpp has a CPU timer function MPI_Wtime() that calls
gettimeofday() .  If your system doesn't support gettimeofday() ,
you'll need to insert code to call another timer.  Note that the
ANSI-standard function clock() rolls over after an hour or so, and is
therefore insufficient for timing long SPPARKS simulations.

(5) The DEPFLAGS setting is how the C++ compiler creates a dependency
file for each source file.  This speeds re-compilation when source
(*.cpp) or header (*.h) files are edited.  Some compilers do not
support dependency file creation, or may use a different switch than
-D.  GNU g++ works with -D.  If your compiler can't create dependency
files (a long list of errors involving *.d files), then you'll need to
create a Makefile.foo patterned after Makefile.tflop, which uses
different rules that do not involve dependency files.

(6) There is a -D compiler switches you can set as part of CCFLAGS.
The dump command will read/write gzipped files if you compile with
-DSPPARKS_GZIP.  It requires that your Unix support the "popen"
command.

That's it.  Once you have a correct Makefile.foo and you have
pre-built the MPI library it uses, all you need to do from the src
directory is type one of these 2 commands:

make foo
gmake foo :pre

You should get the executable spk_foo when the build is complete.

[{Additional build tips:}]

(1) Building SPPARKS for multiple platforms.

You can make SPPARKS for multiple platforms from the same src
directory.  Each target creates its own object sub-directory called
Obj_name where it stores the system-specific *.o files.

(2) Cleaning up.

Typing "make clean" will delete all *.o object files created when
SPPARKS is built.

(3) Building for a Macintosh.

OS X is BSD Unix, so it already works.  See the Makefile.mac file.

:line

2.3 Making SPPARKS with optional packages :h4,link(2_3)

NOTE: this sub-section is currently a placeholder.  There are no
packages distributed with the current version of SPPARKS.

The source code for SPPARKS is structured as a large set of core files
which are always used, plus optional packages, which are groups of
files that enable a specific set of features.  You can see the list of
both standard and user-contributed packages by typing "make package".

Any or all packages can be included or excluded when SPPARKS is built.
You may wish to exclude certain packages if you will never run certain
kinds of simulations.

By default, SPPARKS includes no packages.

Packages are included or excluded by typing "make yes-name" or "make
no-name", where "name" is the name of the package.  You can also type
"make yes-all" or "make no-all" to include/exclude all packages.
These commands work by simply moving files back and forth between the
main src directory and sub-directories with the package name, so that
the files are seen or not seen when SPPARKS is built.  After you have
included or excluded a package, you must re-build SPPARKS.

Additional make options exist to help manage SPPARKS files that exist
in both the src directory and in package sub-directories.  You do not
normally need to use these commands unless you are editing SPPARKS
files or have downloaded a patch from the SPPARKS WWW site.  Typing
"make package-update" will overwrite src files with files from the
package directories if the package has been included.  It should be
used after a patch is installed, since patches only update the master
package version of a file.  Typing "make package-overwrite" will
overwrite files in the package directories with src files.  Typing
"make package-check" will list differences between src and package
versions of the same files.

:line

2.4 Building SPPARKS as a library :h4,link(2_4)

SPPARKS can be built as a library, which can then be called from
another application or a scripting language.
Building SPPARKS as a library is done by typing

make makelib
make -f Makefile.lib foo :pre

where foo is the machine name.  The first "make" command will create a
current Makefile.lib with all the file names in your src dir.  The 2nd
"make" command will use it to build SPPARKS as a library.  This
requires that Makefile.foo have a library target (lib) and
system-specific settings for ARCHIVE and ARFLAGS.  See Makefile.linux
for an example.  The build will create the file libspk_foo.a which
another application can link to.

When used from a C++ program, the library allows one or more SPPARKS
objects to be instantiated.  All of SPPARKS is wrapped in a SPPARKS_NS
namespace; you can safely use any of its classes and methods from
within your application code, as needed.

When used from a C or Fortran program or a scripting language, the
library has a simple function-style interface, provided in library.cpp
and library.h.

You can add as many functions as you wish to library.cpp and
library.h.  In a general sense, those functions can access SPPARKS data
and return it to the caller or set SPPARKS data values as specified by
the caller.  These 4 functions are currently included in library.cpp:

void spparks_open(int, char **, MPI_Comm, void **ptr);
void spparks_close(void *ptr);
int spparks_file(void *ptr, char *);
int spparks_command(void *ptr, char *); :pre

The SPPARKS_open() function is used to initialize SPPARKS, passing in a
list of strings as if they were "command-line arguments"_#2_6 when
SPPARKS is run from the command line and a MPI communicator for SPPARKS
to run under.  It returns a ptr to the SPPARKS object that is created,
and which should be used in subsequent library calls.  Note that
SPPARKS_open() can be called multiple times to create multiple SPPARKS
objects.

The SPPARKS_close() function is used to shut down SPPARKS and free all
its memory.  The SPPARKS_file() and SPPARKS_command() functions are used
to pass a file or string to SPPARKS as if it were an input file or
single command read from an input script.

:line

2.5 Running SPPARKS :h4,link(2_5)

By default, SPPARKS runs by reading commands from stdin;
e.g. spk_linux < in.file.  This means you first create an input script
(e.g. in.file) containing the desired commands.  "This
section"_Section_commands.html describes how input scripts are
structured and what commands they contain.

You can test SPPARKS on any of the sample inputs provided in the
examples directory.  Input scripts are named in.* and sample outputs
are named log.*.name.P where name is a machine and P is the number of
processors it was run on.

Here is how you might run the Potts model tests on a Linux box, using
mpirun to launch a parallel job:

cd src
make linux
cp spk_linux ../examples/lj
cd ../examples/potts
mpirun -np 4 spk_linux < in.potts :pre

The screen output from SPPARKS is described in the next section.  As it
runs, SPPARKS also writes a log.spparks file with the same information.

Note that this sequence of commands copies the SPPARKS executable
(spk_linux) to the directory with the input files.  This may not be
necessary, but some versions of MPI reset the working directory to
where the executable is, rather than leave it as the directory where
you launch mpirun from (if you launch spk_linux on its own and not
under mpirun).  If that happens, SPPARKS will look for additional
input files and write its output files to the executable directory,
rather than your working directory, which is probably not what you
want.

If SPPARKS encounters errors in the input script or while running a
simulation it will print an ERROR message and stop or a WARNING
message and continue.  See "this section"_Section_errors.html for a
discussion of the various kinds of errors SPPARKS can or can't detect,
a list of all ERROR and WARNING messages, and what to do about them.

SPPARKS can run a problem on any number of processors, including a
single processor.  SPPARKS can run as large a problem as will fit in
the physical memory of one or more processors.  If you run out of
memory, you must run on more processors or setup a smaller problem.

:line

2.6 Command-line options :h4,link(2_6)

At run time, SPPARKS recognizes several optional command-line switches
which may be used in any order.  For example, spk_ibm might be
launched as follows:

mpirun -np 16 spk_ibm -var f tmp.out -log my.log -screen none < in.alloy :pre

These are the command-line options:

-echo style :pre

Set the style of command echoing.  The style can be {none} or {screen}
or {log} or {both}.  Depending on the style, each command read from
the input script will be echoed to the screen and/or logfile.  This
can be useful to figure out which line of your script is causing an
input error.  The default value is {log}.  The echo style can also be
set by using the "echo"_echo.html command in the input script itself.

-partition 8x2 4 5 ... :pre

Invoke SPPARKS in multi-partition mode.  When SPPARKS is run on P
processors and this switch is not used, SPPARKS runs in one partition,
i.e. all P processors run a single simulation.  If this switch is
used, the P processors are split into separate partitions and each
partition runs its own simulation.  The arguments to the switch
specify the number of processors in each partition.  Arguments of the
form MxN mean M partitions, each with N processors.  Arguments of the
form N mean a single partition with N processors.  The sum of
processors in all partitions must equal P.  Thus the command
"-partition 8x2 4 5" has 10 partitions and runs on a total of 25
processors.

The input script specifies what simulation is run on which partition;
see the "variable"_variable.html and "next"_next.html commands.  This
"howto section"_Section_howto.html#4_4 gives examples of how to use
these commands in this way.  Simulations running on different
partitions can also communicate with each other; see the
"temper"_temper.html command.

-in file :pre

Specify a file to use as an input script.  This is an optional switch
when running SPPARKS in one-partition mode.  If it is not specified,
SPPARKS reads its input script from stdin - e.g. spk_linux < in.run.
This is a required switch when running SPPARKS in multi-partition
mode, since multiple processors cannot all read from stdin.

-log file :pre

Specify a log file for SPPARKS to write status information to.  In
one-partition mode, if the switch is not used, SPPARKS writes to the
file log.spparks.  If this switch is used, SPPARKS writes to the
specified file.  In multi-partition mode, if the switch is not used, a
log.SPPARKS file is created with hi-level status information.  Each
partition also writes to a log.SPPARKS.N file where N is the partition
ID.  If the switch is specified in multi-partition mode, the hi-level
logfile is named "file" and each partition also logs information to a
file.N.  For both one-partition and multi-partition mode, if the
specified file is "none", then no log files are created.  Using a
"log"_log.html command in the input script will override this setting.

-screen file :pre

Specify a file for SPPARKS to write its screen information to.  In
one-partition mode, if the switch is not used, SPPARKS writes to the
screen.  If this switch is used, SPPARKS writes to the specified file
instead and you will see no screen output.  In multi-partition mode,
if the switch is not used, hi-level status information is written to
the screen.  Each partition also writes to a screen.N file where N is
the partition ID.  If the switch is specified in multi-partition mode,
the hi-level screen dump is named "file" and each partition also
writes screen information to a file.N.  For both one-partition and
multi-partition mode, if the specified file is "none", then no screen
output is performed.

-var name value :pre

Specify a variable that will be defined for substitution purposes when
the input script is read.  "Name" is the variable name which can be a
single character (referenced as $x in the input script) or a full
string (referenced as $\{abc\}).  The value can be any string.  Using
this command-line option is equivalent to putting the line "variable
name index value" at the beginning of the input script.  Defining a
variable as a command-line argument overrides any setting for the same
variable in the input script, since variables cannot be re-defined.
See the "variable"_variable.html command for more info on defining
variables and "this section"_Section_commands.html#3_2 for more info
on using variables in input scripts.
