"Previous Section"_Manual.html - "SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws - "SPPARKS
Documentation"_sd - "SPPARKS Commands"_sc - "Next
Section"_Section_start.html :c

:link(sws,http://www.cs.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/spparks.html)
:link(sd,Manual.html)
:link(sc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

1. Introduction :h3

These sections provide an overview of what SPPARKS can do, describe
what it means for SPPARKS to be an open-source code, and acknowledge
the funding and people who have contributed to SPPARKS.

1.1 "What is SPPARKS"_#1_1
1.2 "SPPARKS features"_#1_2
1.3 "Open source distribution"_#1_4
1.4 "Acknowledgments and citations"_#1_5 :all(b)

:line

1.1 What is SPPARKS :link(1_1),h4

SPPARKS is a kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) code that has algorithms for
both KMC and Metropolis MC updating.  In a generic sense its KMC
solvers catalog a list of "events", each with an associated
"probability", choose a single event to perform, and advance time by
the correct amount.  Events may be chosen indivudually at random or a
sweep of a geometric lattice can be performed to select possible
events in an ordered fashion.  In the Metropolis context an event may
be accepted or rejected via a Boltzmann criterion.

Various applications are implemented in SPPARKS which use this
solver/sweeper framework to perform simulations as a series of events.
The application defines the events and their probabilities.  It also
executes each event when it is selected.

In parallel, a geometric partitioning of the simulation domain is
performed.  Sub-partitioning of processor domains into quadrants (2d)
or octants (3d) is done to enable multiple events to be performed on
multiple processors simultaneously.  Communication of boundary
information is performed as needed.

SPPARKS is designed to be easy to modify and extend.  For example, new
solvers and sweeping rules can be added, as can new applications.
Applications can define new commands which are read from the input
script.

SPPARKS is written in C++.  It runs on single-processor desktop or
laptop machines, but for some applications, can also run on parallel
computers.  SPPARKS will run on any parallel machine that compiles C++
and supports the "MPI"_mpi message-passing library.  This includes
distributed- or shared-memory machines.

:link(mpi,http://www-unix.mcs.anl.gov/mpi)

SPPARKS is a freely-available open-source code.  See the "SPPARKS WWW
Site"_sws for download information.  It is distributed under the terms
of the "GNU Public License"_gnu, which means you can use or modify the
code however you wish.  The only restrictions imposed by the GPL are
on how you distribute the code further.  See "this section"_#1_4 for a
brief discussion of the open-source philosophy.

:link(gnu,http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html)

:line

1.2 SPPARKS features :link(1_2),h4

These are the applications currently available in SPPARKS:

Ising model
Potts model
Membrane model
Biochemcial reaction network model :ul

These are the KMC solvers currently available in SPPARKS and their
scaling properties:

linear, O(N)
tree, O(logN)
group, O(1) :ul

Pre- and post-processing: :h4

Our group has written and released a separate toolkit called
"Pizza.py"_pizza which provides tools which can be used to setup,
analyze, plot, and visualize data for SPPARKS simulations.  Pizza.py
is written in "Python"_python and is available for download from "the
Pizza.py WWW site"_pizza.

:link(pizza,http://www.cs.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/pizza.html)
:link(python,http://www.python.org)

:line

1.4 Open source distribution :link(1_4),h4

SPPARKS comes with no warranty of any kind.  As each source file states
in its header, it is a copyrighted code that is distributed free-of-
charge, under the terms of the "GNU Public License"_gnu (GPL).  This
is often referred to as open-source distribution - see
"www.gnu.org"_gnuorg or "www.opensource.org"_opensource for more
details.  The legal text of the GPL is in the LICENSE file that is
included in the SPPARKS distribution.

:link(gnuorg,http://www.gnu.org)
:link(opensource,http://www.opensource.org)

Here is a summary of what the GPL means for SPPARKS users:

(1) Anyone is free to use, modify, or extend SPPARKS in any way they
choose, including for commercial purposes.

(2) If you distribute a modified version of SPPARKS, it must remain
open-source, meaning you distribute source code under the terms of the
GPL.  You should clearly annotate such a code as a derivative version
of SPPARKS.

(3) If you distribute any code that used SPPARKS source code,
including calling it as a library, then that must also be open-source,
meaning you distribute its source code under the terms of the GPL.

(4) If you give SPPARKS files to someone else, the GPL LICENSE file and
source file headers (including the copyright and GPL notices) should
remain part of the code.

In the spirit of an open-source code, if you use SPPARKS for something
useful or if you fix a bug or add a new feature or applicaton to the
code, let us know.  We would like to include your contribution in the
released version of the code and/or advertise your success on our WWW
page.

:line

1.4 Acknowledgments and citations :h4,link(1_5)

SPPARKS is distributed by "Sandia National Laboratories"_sandia.
SPPARKS development has been funded by the "US Department of
Energy"_doe (DOE), through its LDRD and ASC programs.

:link(sandia,http://www.sandia.gov)
:link(doe,http://www.doe.gov)

The primary authors of SPPARKS are Steve Plimpton, Aidan Thompson, and
Alex Slepoy.  They can be contacted via email: sjplimp@sandia.gov,
athomps@sandia.gov, alexander.slepoy@nnsa.doe.gov.

The following Sandians have also contributed to the design and
ideas in SPPARKS:

Corbett Battaile
Liz Holm
Ed Webb :ul
