"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws :c
:link(sws,../spparks.html)

:line

New Features and Bug Fixes in SPPARKS :h3

This page lists new features and bug fixes in the SPPARKS simulator
since the current version was released.

To add these features/fixes to your version of SPPARKS, download the
current tarball from the "download page"_../download.html, which
includes all the new features/fixes listed below, and rebuild the
code.

The current version of SPPARKS is 13 April 2009.

:line

[20 Aug 2009]

Fixed a bug in "app_style diffusion2"_doc/app_diffusion2.html with
Schwoebel barriers that was preventing them from being calculated
correctly when mixed with normal hop barriers.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.20Aug09 from the 19
Aug 2009 version.

:line

[19 Aug 2009]

Added a "diag_style propensity"_doc/diag_propensity.html command to
enable total system propensity for KMC simulations to be output with
"statistics"_doc/stats.html.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.19Aug09 from the 7
Aug 2009 version.

:line

[7 Aug 2009]

Added Schwoebel hops to "app_style diffusion2"_doc/app_diffusion2.html
which are effectively 2nd nearest neighbor hops.  This also affected
the syntax of the "barrier"_doc/barrier.html and the output of the
"diag_style diffusion"_doc/diag_diffusion.html command.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.7Aug09 from the 23
Jul 2009 version.

:line

[23 Jul 2009]

Also needed to update the examples input scripts to reflect the
changed syntax in "dump"_doc/dump.html commands due to the 22Jul09 patch.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.23Jul09 from the 22
Jul 2009 version.

:line

[22 Jul 2009]

Made some enhancements to the "dump"_doc/dump.html command.  There are
now also "dump_modify"_doc/dump_modify.html,
"dump_one"_doc/dump_one.html, and "undump"_doc/undump.html commands.
All of them now take a dump ID, so that you can use multiple dump
files during a simulation if desired.

Additional features include changing output times via the
"dump_modify"_doc/dump_modify.html command, sub-selecting sites to output
via the "dump_modify thresh"_doc/dump_modify.html command, allowing
for one file per snapshot and/or one file per processor via wildcards
in the "dump"_doc/dump.html command filename, and allowing for
output of binary or gzipped dump files.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.22Jul09 from the 20
Jul 2009 version.

:line

[20 Jul 2009]

Added a "app_style diffusion2"_doc/app_diffusion2.html application
which will eventually replace all of the existing "app_style
diffusion"_doc/app_diffusion.html and "app_style
pore"_doc/app_pore.html variants, once we've done some more testing.

As part of the new, more general diffusion application, new commands
for defining energy "barrier"_doc/barrier.html and
"deposition"_doc/deposition.html event parameters were also added.

A new lattice option for the on-lattice "application
styles"_doc/app_style.html was added.  It is {fcc/octa/tetra} and
defines an FCC lattice with additional interstitial octahedral and
tetrahedral sites.  It's useful for a new application we're developing
and will release at some point.

This patch also includes a new option to run with the "sweep
color"_doc/sweep.html and "sector yes"_doc/sector.html settings
together which was not previously allowed.  We think this will be
useful for some rejection KMC applications to enable faster sweeping
in parallel due to less communication, while still preserving the
independence of site updating that coloring provides.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.20Jul09 from the 7
Jul 2009 version.

:line

[7 Jul 2009]

Added a "dump_one"_doc/dump_one.html command to force a shapshot of
the lattice to be written to the file specified by the
"dump"_doc/dump.html command.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.7Jul09 from the 26
Jun 2009 version.

:line

[26 Jun 2009]

Aidan Thompson (Sandia) fixed a bug in the recent "diag_style
cluster"_doc/diag_cluster.html upgrade.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.26Jun09 from the 24
Jun 2009 version.

:line

[24 Jun 2009]

Enhanced the "pin"_doc/pin.html command for use by the "app_style
potts/pin"_doc/app_potts_pin.html command.  Also enhanced the grain
identification performed by the "diag_style
cluster"_doc/diag_cluster.html command to not include pinned sites.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.24Jun09 from the 12
May 2009 version.

:line

[12 May 2009]

Fixed a dumb bug with the rejection method (rKMC) applied to
"app_style diffusion"_doc/app_diffusion.html.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.12May09 from the 14
Apr 2009 version.

Thanks to Greg Wagner (Sandia) for identifying the problem.

:line

[14 Apr 2009]

Removed an application from the distribution that is still
a work-in-progress.  Wasn't meant to be released yet.

This is the "list of changed files"_patches/files.14Apr09 from the 13
Apr 2009 version.

:line

[13 April 2009]

Initial public release of SPPARKS.  17,341 lines of code in src dir.
This version supercedes earlier distributed beta versions.
