"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws :c
:link(sws,../spparks.html)

:line

Pictures & Movies from SPPARKS Simulations :h3

"abnormal"_#abnormal:       abnormal grain growth
"erbium hydrides"_#erbium:  Erbium hydride
"thin film growth"_#thinfilm: thin film growth
"nanoporous metals"_#nanoporous: diffusion in nanoporous metals
"nuclear fuel"_#nuclear_fuel: bubble formation and sintering in nuclear fuel :tb(s=:)

Pictures on this page are shown in small size.  Click on the image to
view a larger version.

For movies on this page, click on the small image to trigger the
animation.

:line

Abnormal grain growth :h4,link(abnormal)

This is work by Liz Holm (eaholm at sandia.gov) at Sandia and Todd
Hoffmann (todd.hoffmann at asu.edu) and his advisor at Carnegie
Mellon, to study the mechanisms and statistics associated with
abnormal grain growth. In grain growth, when the system is annealed,
grain boundaries will move and rearrange so as to increase the average
grain size and decrease the grain boundary area per unit volume. In
normal grain growth, this occurs relatively uniformly, but in abnormal
grain growth, one grain grows at the expense of the others. Abnormal
grain growth can have many causes. Here the effects of static particle
dispersions on grain growth are studied. Particles should pin grain
boundaries in positions that maximize their contact with the
particles, so that grain growth cannot proceed. However, occasionally
one grain breaks free and is able to grow at the expense of others,
leading to abnormal growth.

The on-lattice SPPARKS application ("app_style
potts/pin"_doc/app_potts_pin.html) that runs this model implements a
Potts model of grain growth and also allows for inert pinning
particles.  The pinning particles can be inserted preferentially at
grain boundaries or throughtout the system.  Several hundred
independent runs were made on 300x300x300 lattices, each of at least a
million Monte Carlo steps (sweep over all lattice sites) at finite
simulation temperature, to acquire enough data for statistical
analysis.

The images and movies show typical results for systems with 5 volume
percent pinning particles, inserted when the average grain radius was
10 sites.  In the normal case, the system becomes fully pinned.  In
the second case, abnormal growth eventually occurs.

:image(images/normal_small.jpg,images/normal.jpg)
:image(images/abnormal_small.jpg,images/abnormal.jpg)
:image(images/normal_small.jpg,movies/normal.avi)
:image(images/abnormal_small.jpg,movies/abnormal.avi)

Two images and two 1.5 Mb AVI movies

:line

Erbium hydrides :h4,link(erbium)

This is work by Corbett Battaile (ccbatta at sandia.gov) and Steve
Plimpton at Sandia, to model the mobility of gaseous species such as
tritium and helium in metal hydrides, like erbium.  Such hydrides are
commonly used for neutron generation in many applications in industry,
medicine, and national security, including petroleum exploration,
explosives detection, toxic waste analysis, and boron neutron capture
therapy.  As tritium decays into helium, the helium gas clusters to
form bubbles, often found to be preferentially oriented along \{111\}
planes in the erbium lattice.

The on-lattice SPPARKS application that runs this model uses an fcc
lattice with additional tetrahedral and octrahedral interstitial
sites.  Both the tritium and helium can diffuse through the lattice on
the interstitial sites.

The image is a snapshot from a simulation on 1024 processors of a
500x500x500 unit-cell model (2 billion sites) which encodes the list
of 1-, 2-, and 3-site migration mechanisms for the two mobile species.
The helium (red) diffuses but is not yet aggregating due to a lack of
appropriate binding and barrier energies for the various event
configurations.  These values (inputs to SPPARKS) are currently being
calculated via density functional theory in the electronic structure
code "SeqQuest"_http://dft.sandia.gov/Quest.

:image(images/erbium_small.png,images/erbium.png)

:line

Thin film growth :h4,link(thinfilm)

This is work by Ed Webb (ebwebb at sandia.gov), Xiaowang Zhou (xzhou
at sandia.gov), and Steve Plimpton (sjplimp at sandia.gov) at Sandia,
to model thin film deposition and growth.  For many thin film
applications, a high degree of control is desired over film properties
including surface/interface roughness, film texture, grain structure,
and defect content.  For example, controlling void content is critical
to a number of applications where voids created during deposition lead
to shortened device lifetimes.  Interface roughness is also important
to many photovoltaic, microelectronic, and optical thin film
applications when multilayered films are deposited.  On-lattice KMC
models can be used to study many of these effects, though they cannot
capture effects like dislocation formation in the depositing crystal.

The on-lattice SPPARKS application ("app_style
diffusion"_doc/app_diffusion.html) which ran these Ni models uses an
underlying triangular lattice (2d) or fcc lattice (3d) and defines two
types of events (deposition and diffusion).  Nearest-neighbor and/or
2nd nearest-neighbor (Schwoebel) hops can be enabled or disabled.  In
these simulations, all deposition was performed at normal incidence.

The first 3 images and accompanying movies are of 2d growth under 3
conditions.  The first is with no Schwoebel hops (which might be
suppressed experimentally by adding impurities to the system) and
results in a thin film with high porosity.  The 2nd and 3rd are with
Schwoebel hops at low and high temperatures (250 and 600K).  In the
low-temperature case there are about 3 diffusive hops per deposition
event.  In the high-temperature case, the ratio is 72000, resulting in
a much smoother film.

The next 3 images are 3d growth (on a 2d surface), again under 3
conditions.  The first two are with no Schwoebel hops at low and high
temperatures (300 and 400K).  The third is with Schwoebel hops at
300K.  Similar effects as in the 2d case are observed, though the
system is harder to visualize.

Finally, a rough surface (sinusoidal hillocks) was annealed at 500K
for 10,000 seconds with a diffusion-only model in a fcc model, both
with and without Schwoebel events.  In both case the unstable surface
asperities (top of figure) turned 45 degrees to a (111) orientation to
maximize the surface stablility.  However, without Schwoebel hops
(middle of figure), the system lacks the ability to anneal out
terraces.  With Schwoebel hops (bottom of figure), terraces were all
annealed out and clear (111) and (100) facets developed.

:image(images/thin_2d_no_schwoebel_small.jpg,images/thin_2d_no_schwoebel.jpg)
:image(images/thin_2d_schwoebel_lotemp_small.jpg,images/thin_2d_schwoebel_lotemp.jpg)
:image(images/thin_2d_schwoebel_hitemp_small.jpg,images/thin_2d_schwoebel_hitemp.jpg)

:image(images/thin_2d_no_schwoebel_small.jpg,movies/thin_2d_no_schwoebel.mov)
:image(images/thin_2d_schwoebel_lotemp_small.jpg,movies/thin_2d_schwoebel_lotemp.mov)
:image(images/thin_2d_schwoebel_hitemp_small.jpg,movies/thin_2d_schwoebel_hitemp.mov)

:image(images/thin_3d_no_schwoebel_lotemp_small.jpg,images/thin_3d_no_schwoebel_lotemp.jpg)
:image(images/thin_3d_no_schwoebel_hitemp_small.jpg,images/thin_3d_no_schwoebel_hitemp.jpg)
:image(images/thin_3d_schwoebel_small.jpg,images/thin_3d_schwoebel.jpg)

:image(images/surf_evolution_small.png,images/surf_evolution.png)

Three images and three 10 Mb QuickTime movies of 2d thin film growth.
Three images of 3d film growth.  One image (yellow atoms) of hillock
rearrangement on a 2d surface.

:line

Diffusion in nanoporous metals :h4,link(nanoporous)

This is work by Greg Wagner (gjwagne at sandia.gov) at Sandia, to
model diffusion in nanoporous metals.  Such materials have a range of
applications based on their very large surface-to-volume ratios.  At
Sandida nanoporous palladium particles are being studied for use as a
hydrogen storage medium, and nanoporous gold wires are being tested
for use as electrodes in super-capacitors.  As these complex materials
age, especially at elevated temperatures, the evolution of their
nanostructures with time can greatly affect material properties and
performance.  KMC can model this aging over long timescales.

The on-lattice SPPARKS application ("app_style
diffusion"_doc/app_diffusion.html) that runs this model uses an fcc
lattice and energies and barrier heights calcaluted from atomistic
simulations using embedded atom method (EAM) potentials.  Diffusion in
the KMC model is described by Kawasaki dynamics, in which each event
is the motion of an individual atom.  A basic atom hop is defined as
movement to any vacant neighboring site.  Special consideration is
given to Schwoebel barriers, in which an atom diffuses up or down a
ledge between atomic monolayers, which is effectively a hop to a
lattice location two sites away.

The images and associated movies are a bulk diffusion model with
60x60x60 unit cells (0.864 million sites) and a 50% porosity factor.
If we define the length scale of the system as the inverse of the
surface-to-volume ratio, then we observe the fourth power of this
quantity grows linearly with time, in agreement with theory.

:image(images/porous1_small.jpg,images/porous1.jpg)
:image(images/porous2_small.jpg,images/porous2.jpg)
:image(images/porous1_small.jpg,movies/porous1.mov)
:image(images/porous2_small.jpg,movies/porous2.mov)

Two images and two QuickTime movies (6 and 2 Mb)

:line

Nuclear fuel :h4,link(nuclear_fuel)

This is work by Veena Tikare (vtikare at sandia.gov) at Sandia and
Cristina Garcia Cardona (cgarcia at sciences.sdsu.edu) at San Diego
State Univ, to study mechanisms of microstructural morphology change
in nuclear fuel pins, due to aging and thermal cycling.  They
augmented the usual Potts model of grain growth with two additional
physical effects.  Gas molecules are created via nuclear reactions and
can aggregate to form bubbles.  This aggregation occurs preferentially
at grain boundary planes due to favorable energetics, in agreement
with experiment.  Over time a significant fraction of the material
volume becomes void.  A sintering process takes place due to thermal
cycling which results in voids being pushed to the outer surface of
the material, and compaction of the remaining granular microstructure.
The algorithm for doing this in SPPARKS was non-trivial, since in
parallel it involves projecting an interior point of the lattice to an
external boundary site, requiring interprocessor communication.

The first image shows accumulate bubble formation at planar boundaries
between 2 grains.  The remaining images are from a simulation of the
sintering process for a powder of Cu particles.  The first pair of
images are for an initial material density of 69%.  As it compacts, an
intermediate density of 79% is shown.  The final pair of images are
for a compacted density at the end of the simulation of 83%.  Both 3d
pictures of the full model and 2d slices are shown.  The density
versus time profiles for this system are in good agreement with
experiment.

:image(images/bubble_small.png,images/bubble.png)

:image(images/sinter_bulk0_small.png,images/sinter_bulk0.png)
:image(images/sinter_slice0_small.png,images/sinter_slice0.png)

:image(images/sinter_bulk1_small.png,images/sinter_bulk1.png)
:image(images/sinter_slice1_small.png,images/sinter_slice1.png)

:image(images/sinter_bulk2_small.png,images/sinter_bulk2.png)
:image(images/sinter_slice2_small.png,images/sinter_slice2.png)
